README.md, before:

# Hi there 👋

## Welcome to My Coding Zone....

I am Tareque Mahmud, an aspiring Full Stack Web Application Developer from Bangladesh.

:hearts: &emsp;I enjoy programming and help other learn to code <br/>
:computer: &emsp;Most used line of code `console.log("hello world")` <br/>
:e-mail: &emsp;How to reach me: tarequemahmud313@gmail.com.<br/>

<!--
**TarequeMahmud/TarequeMahmud** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->

:coffee: &emsp;Connect with me!

[![Linkedin Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](www.linkedin.com/in/tareque-mahmud-32956024a/) [![Twitter Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-1DA1F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://x.com/tarequemahmud10) [![Mail Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:tarequemahmud313@gmail.com)

### <img src="https://media2.giphy.com/media/QssGEmpkyEOhBCb7e1/giphy.gif?cid=ecf05e47a0n3gi1bfqntqmob8g9aid1oyj2wr3ds3mg700bl&rid=giphy.gif" width ="25"><b>Things I code with</b>

[![Javascript Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Javascript-F0DB4F?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=javascript&logoColor=F0DB4F)](#) [![Typescript Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Typescript-007acc?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=typescript&logoColor=007acc)](#) [![React Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-React-61DBFB?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=react&logoColor=61DBFB)](#) [![Next.js Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/next.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white)](#) [![Nodejs Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Nodejs-3C873A?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=node.js&logoColor=3C873A)](#) [![Express.js Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white)](#) [![MongoDB Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)](#) <!--[![GraphQL Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GraphQl-e535ab?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=node.js&logoColor=e535ab)](#)--> [![SASS Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sass-CC6699?style=for-the-badge&logo=sass&logoColor=white)](#) [![Tailwind Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind%20CSS-092749?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss&logoColor=06B6D4&labelColor=000000)](#) [![VSCode Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Visual_Studio-5C2D91?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual%20studio&logoColor=white)](#) [![Git Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)](#)

## 🚀 All My Projects

#### Responsive Web Design Projects (Only HTML and CSS)

| Project Name                                                                                             | Project Description                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| [Cat Photo App](your-repo-link)                                                                          | A simple HTML page featuring a cat photo app.   |
| [Cafe Menu](your-repo-link)                                                                              | A cafe menu, styled with basic CSS.             |
| [Colored Markers](your-repo-link)                                                                        | A set of colorful markers using CSS colors.     |
| [Registration Form](your-repo-link)                                                                      | A user registration form with HTML forms.       |
| [Survey Form](your-repo-link)                                                                            | A survey form to collect user data.             |
| [Rothko Painting](your-repo-link)                                                                        | A CSS box model-based Rothko painting.          |
| [Photo Gallery](your-repo-link)                                                                          | A photo gallery created using CSS Flexbox.      |
| [Nutrition Label](your-repo-link)                                                                        | A nutrition label designed with typography.     |
| [Quiz](your-repo-link)                                                                                   | A quiz app showcasing accessibility features.   |
| [Tribute Page](your-repo-link)                                                                           | A tribute page for a subject of your choice.    |
| [Balance Sheet](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/Balance-sheet) | A balance sheet styled with pseudo-selectors.   |
| [Cat Painting](your-repo-link)                                                                           | A colorful cat painting using intermediate CSS. |
| [Piano](your-repo-link)                                                                                  | A piano layout demonstrating responsive design. |
| [Technical Documentation Page](your-repo-link)                                                           | A technical documentation page layout.          |
| [City Skyline](your-repo-link)                                                                           | A city skyline crafted with CSS variables.      |
| [Magazine](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/magazine)           | A magazine layout built with CSS Grid.          |
| [Product Landing Page](your-repo-link)                                                                   | A product landing page for showcasing items.    |
| [Ferris Wheel](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/ferris-wheel)   | A ferris wheel animated with CSS.               |
| [Penguin](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/penguin)             | A penguin, built using CSS transforms.          |
| [Personal Portfolio](your-repo-link)                                                                     | A portfolio page to showcase your projects.     |

## 🏆 Professional Certifications

#### Responsive Web Design Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="assets/FreeCodeCamp_responsive_web_design.png" alt="Responsive Web Design Certification" width="600">

This **Responsive Web Design Certification** involved designing and building 20 responsive web projects, including five certification projects that showcase mastery of modern HTML and CSS techniques. Here are the certification projects I completed:

1. [**Tribute Page**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/tribute-page.git): Created a responsive webpage paying tribute to a historical figure.
2. [**Survey Form**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/survey-form.git): Designed a responsive and accessible form for collecting user information.
3. [**Product Landing Page**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/product-landing-page.git): Developed a responsive landing page to promote a product or service.
4. [**Technical Documentation Page**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/technical-documentation-page.git): Built a responsive documentation page with clear navigation and structure.
5. [**Personal Portfolio Webpage**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/personal-portfolio.git): Designed and developed a fully responsive personal portfolio showcasing projects and skills.

#### JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="/assets/Freecodecamp_javascript_data_structures_and_algorithm.png" alt="JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures Certification" width="600">

This is a hardworking certification I have obtained from FreeCodeCamp. I have to do `23 projects` that was in the learning path, from Algorithmic thinking to simple Game Development. Then I have to do 5 certification projects that are included:

1. [**Palindrome Checker**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/palindrome-checker.git): Developed a function to check if a string reads the same backward as forward.
2. [**Roman Numeral Converter**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/roman-numeral-converter.git): Created a function to convert numbers to Roman numerals.
3. [**Pokémon Search App**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/pokemon-search-app.git): Built an application to search for and display information about different Pokémon using an external API.
4. [**Telephone Number Validator**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/validatePhone.git): Built a validator to verify if the input matches the format of a U.S. phone number.
5. [**Cash Register**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/cash-register.git): Created a cash register that returns appropriate change.

#### Backend Development and APIs Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="assets/Freecodecamp_Backend_Development_And_Api_Certificate_Tareque_Mahmud.png" alt="Backend Development Certification" width="600">

I have achieved this certificate from FreeCodeCamp after a lots of hardwork. After going through a learning path, where I learnt **NodeJs**, **Express.js**, **MongoDB**, **Mongoose** and **Debugging** I had to complete 5 do-yourself certification projects. Projects included:

1. [**Timestamp Microservice**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/timestamp-microservice-fcc.git): Built a microservice that returns date/time information based on user input.
2. [**Request Header Parser Microservice**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/headerparser-fcc.git): Created a service that parses and returns user request header information.
3. [**URL Shortener**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/url-shortener.git): Developed a system to generate shorter URLs for easier reference.
4. [**Exercise Tracker**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/excercise-tracker-api.git): Implemented an application to log and track user exercises.
5. [**File Metadata Microservice**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/file-metadata-microservice.git): Created a microservice that accepts a file upload and returns metadata about the file.

#### Quality Assurance Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="assets/FreeCodeCamp_Quality_Assurance.png" alt="Quality Assurance Certification" width="600">

I've achieved the Quality Assurance Certification from freeCodeCamp, adding new skills through hands-on experience with project-based learning, including **Passport.js**, **Socket.io**, **Advanced Node and Express**, and **Mocha and Chai** for testing. Here are the certification projects I completed:

1. [**Metric-Imperial Converter**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/metric-imperial-converter.git): Developed a converter for units of measurement between the metric and imperial systems.
2. [**Issue Tracker**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/issue-tracker.git): Built an issue tracker that allows users to report, modify, and track issues.
3. [**Personal Library**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/personal-library.git): Created a library application to add, remove, and track books.
4. [**Sudoku Solver**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/sudoku-solver.git): Implemented a logic-based solution to solve and verify Sudoku puzzles.
5. [**American British Translator**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/british-american-translator.git): Developed a tool to translate between American and British English.

Check out these projects to see my work in Quality Assurance and software testing practices.

Commit message:

add backend projects table on README

README.md, after:

# Hi there 👋

## Welcome to My Coding Zone....

I am Tareque Mahmud, an aspiring Full Stack Web Application Developer from Bangladesh.

:hearts: &emsp;I enjoy programming and help other learn to code <br/>
:computer: &emsp;Most used line of code `console.log("function working")` <br/>
:e-mail: &emsp;How to reach me: tarequemahmud313@gmail.com.<br/>

<!--
**TarequeMahmud/TarequeMahmud** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->

:coffee: &emsp;Connect with me!

[![Linkedin Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](www.linkedin.com/in/tareque-mahmud-32956024a/) [![Twitter Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-1DA1F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://x.com/tarequemahmud10) [![Mail Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:tarequemahmud313@gmail.com)

### <img src="https://media2.giphy.com/media/QssGEmpkyEOhBCb7e1/giphy.gif?cid=ecf05e47a0n3gi1bfqntqmob8g9aid1oyj2wr3ds3mg700bl&rid=giphy.gif" width ="25"><b>Things I code with</b>

[![Javascript Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Javascript-F0DB4F?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=javascript&logoColor=F0DB4F)](#) [![Typescript Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Typescript-007acc?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=typescript&logoColor=007acc)](#) [![React Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-React-61DBFB?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=react&logoColor=61DBFB)](#) [![Next.js Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/next.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white)](#) [![Nodejs Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Nodejs-3C873A?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=node.js&logoColor=3C873A)](#) [![Express.js Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white)](#) [![MongoDB Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)](#) <!--[![GraphQL Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GraphQl-e535ab?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=black&logo=node.js&logoColor=e535ab)](#)--> [![SASS Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sass-CC6699?style=for-the-badge&logo=sass&logoColor=white)](#) [![Tailwind Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind%20CSS-092749?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss&logoColor=06B6D4&labelColor=000000)](#) [![VSCode Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Visual_Studio-5C2D91?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual%20studio&logoColor=white)](#) [![Git Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)](#)

## 🚀 All My Projects

#### Backend Projects and Microservices

| Project Name                                                                                              | Project Description                                    |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Timestamp Microservice](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/timestamp-microservice)                         | A service to parse and return date and time.           |
| [Request Header Parser Microservice](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/request-header-parser-microservice) | A microservice to extract and display request headers. |
| [URL Shortener Microservice](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/url-shortener-microservice)                 | A service to shorten and redirect URLs.                |
| [Exercise Tracker](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/exercise-tracker)                                     | An app to log and track user exercises.                |
| [File Metadata Microservice](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/file-metadata-microservice)                 | A service to retrieve file metadata.                   |
| [Metric-Imperial Converter](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/metric-imperial-converter)                   | A tool to convert between metric and imperial units.   |
| [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/issue-tracker)                                           | A web app to log and manage issues.                    |
| [Personal Library](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/personal-library)                                     | A service to manage a collection of books.             |
| [Sudoku Solver](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/sudoku-solver)                                           | A tool to solve Sudoku puzzles programmatically.       |
| [American British Translator](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/british-american-translator)               | A translator for American and British English.         |

#### Responsive Web Design Projects (Only HTML and CSS)

| Project Name                                                                                             | Project Description                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| [Cat Photo App](your-repo-link)                                                                          | A simple HTML page featuring a cat photo app.   |
| [Cafe Menu](your-repo-link)                                                                              | A cafe menu, styled with basic CSS.             |
| [Colored Markers](your-repo-link)                                                                        | A set of colorful markers using CSS colors.     |
| [Registration Form](your-repo-link)                                                                      | A user registration form with HTML forms.       |
| [Survey Form](your-repo-link)                                                                            | A survey form to collect user data.             |
| [Rothko Painting](your-repo-link)                                                                        | A CSS box model-based Rothko painting.          |
| [Photo Gallery](your-repo-link)                                                                          | A photo gallery created using CSS Flexbox.      |
| [Nutrition Label](your-repo-link)                                                                        | A nutrition label designed with typography.     |
| [Quiz](your-repo-link)                                                                                   | A quiz app showcasing accessibility features.   |
| [Tribute Page](your-repo-link)                                                                           | A tribute page for a subject of your choice.    |
| [Balance Sheet](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/Balance-sheet) | A balance sheet styled with pseudo-selectors.   |
| [Cat Painting](your-repo-link)                                                                           | A colorful cat painting using intermediate CSS. |
| [Piano](your-repo-link)                                                                                  | A piano layout demonstrating responsive design. |
| [Technical Documentation Page](your-repo-link)                                                           | A technical documentation page layout.          |
| [City Skyline](your-repo-link)                                                                           | A city skyline crafted with CSS variables.      |
| [Magazine](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/magazine)           | A magazine layout built with CSS Grid.          |
| [Product Landing Page](your-repo-link)                                                                   | A product landing page for showcasing items.    |
| [Ferris Wheel](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/ferris-wheel)   | A ferris wheel animated with CSS.               |
| [Penguin](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/responsive-web-design-projects/tree/main/penguin)             | A penguin, built using CSS transforms.          |
| [Personal Portfolio](your-repo-link)                                                                     | A portfolio page to showcase your projects.     |

## 🏆 Professional Certifications

#### Responsive Web Design Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="assets/FreeCodeCamp_responsive_web_design.png" alt="Responsive Web Design Certification" width="600">

This **Responsive Web Design Certification** involved designing and building 20 responsive web projects, including five certification projects that showcase mastery of modern HTML and CSS techniques. Here are the certification projects I completed:

1. [**Tribute Page**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/tribute-page.git): Created a responsive webpage paying tribute to a historical figure.
2. [**Survey Form**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/survey-form.git): Designed a responsive and accessible form for collecting user information.
3. [**Product Landing Page**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/product-landing-page.git): Developed a responsive landing page to promote a product or service.
4. [**Technical Documentation Page**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/technical-documentation-page.git): Built a responsive documentation page with clear navigation and structure.
5. [**Personal Portfolio Webpage**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/personal-portfolio.git): Designed and developed a fully responsive personal portfolio showcasing projects and skills.

#### JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="/assets/Freecodecamp_javascript_data_structures_and_algorithm.png" alt="JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures Certification" width="600">

This is a hardworking certification I have obtained from FreeCodeCamp. I have to do `23 projects` that was in the learning path, from Algorithmic thinking to simple Game Development. Then I have to do 5 certification projects that are included:

1. [**Palindrome Checker**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/palindrome-checker.git): Developed a function to check if a string reads the same backward as forward.
2. [**Roman Numeral Converter**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/roman-numeral-converter.git): Created a function to convert numbers to Roman numerals.
3. [**Pokémon Search App**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/pokemon-search-app.git): Built an application to search for and display information about different Pokémon using an external API.
4. [**Telephone Number Validator**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/validatePhone.git): Built a validator to verify if the input matches the format of a U.S. phone number.
5. [**Cash Register**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/cash-register.git): Created a cash register that returns appropriate change.

#### Backend Development and APIs Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="assets/Freecodecamp_Backend_Development_And_Api_Certificate_Tareque_Mahmud.png" alt="Backend Development Certification" width="600">

I have achieved this certificate from FreeCodeCamp after a lots of hardwork. After going through a learning path, where I learnt **NodeJs**, **Express.js**, **MongoDB**, **Mongoose** and **Debugging** I had to complete 5 do-yourself certification projects. Projects included:

1. [**Timestamp Microservice**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/timestamp-microservice-fcc.git): Built a microservice that returns date/time information based on user input.
2. [**Request Header Parser Microservice**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/headerparser-fcc.git): Created a service that parses and returns user request header information.
3. [**URL Shortener**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/url-shortener.git): Developed a system to generate shorter URLs for easier reference.
4. [**Exercise Tracker**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/excercise-tracker-api.git): Implemented an application to log and track user exercises.
5. [**File Metadata Microservice**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/file-metadata-microservice.git): Created a microservice that accepts a file upload and returns metadata about the file.

#### Quality Assurance Certification (freeCodeCamp)

<img src="assets/FreeCodeCamp_Quality_Assurance.png" alt="Quality Assurance Certification" width="600">

I've achieved the Quality Assurance Certification from freeCodeCamp, adding new skills through hands-on experience with project-based learning, including **Passport.js**, **Socket.io**, **Advanced Node and Express**, and **Mocha and Chai** for testing. Here are the certification projects I completed:

1. [**Metric-Imperial Converter**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/metric-imperial-converter.git): Developed a converter for units of measurement between the metric and imperial systems.
2. [**Issue Tracker**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/issue-tracker.git): Built an issue tracker that allows users to report, modify, and track issues.
3. [**Personal Library**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/personal-library.git): Created a library application to add, remove, and track books.
4. [**Sudoku Solver**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/sudoku-solver.git): Implemented a logic-based solution to solve and verify Sudoku puzzles.
5. [**American British Translator**](https://github.com/TarequeMahmud/british-american-translator.git): Developed a tool to translate between American and British English.

Check out these projects to see my work in Quality Assurance and software testing practices.
